I gave a talk to the Linux SIG on my journey to find cheaper service
provider and how it led me to my own Linux server on the Internet
providing those services for significantly less.

I've been a customer of DynDNS for 12 years.  I have been using them
for my standard and dynamic DNS, domain registration, SMTP, and
email gateway provider.  Every year without fail, they've raised my
rates for those services to where they were now charging me $139.85
a year.  That was just too much, so I set out to find another
provider.

I checked out dozens of other providers for the same list of
services.  None are significantly cheaper for domain registration
services, so I decided to leave that piece with DynDNS.  For the
dynamic DNS service, there are several free providers, so I went
with freedns.afraid.org.  For the remaining services, there are many
choices.  The cheapest ones I could find with good reputations are
around $70-$75/yr.  Still more than I thought those services are
worth, but still substantially less than DynDNS.

I was about to sign up with one of them, then it hit me.  On the
"Linux Unplugged" podcast I listen to, they advertise Linux Virtual
Private Servers (VPSes) by Digital Ocean for as low as $5/mo (along
with their coupon code good for a $10 credit).  So I set off to
answer my question of if I could really use a VPS to provide all
those services.  For spending $5, I'd have my own VPS for three
months to find out.

After a week or so of tinkering, I could!

Digital Ocean offers free DNS to its customers, so not a problem.  I
could configure Postfix on my VPS to provide the SMTP and an email
gateway services.  Their lowest end VPS includes more than enough
disk space, CPU, and bandwidth to pull it all off, and it would run
me only $60/yr, cheaper than any alternative I had found.  And I
still get my very own Linux server on the Internet to play on and
with full root access!

I checked several other Linux and UNIX VPS providers to see if anyone
could beat Digital Ocean's price structure for what I needed.  They
couldn't come close.

So after explaining all this lead-in to the SIG, I demoed Digital
Ocean's web site, features, and services showing how to spin up
a brand new Linux VPS in about a minute, logging in with root,
and doing Linux user and administrative functions.  Digital Ocean
doesn't really charge by the month.  They charge by the hour,
$0.007/hr.  So to create a brand new Linux Ubuntu VPS and show it
off to the SIG costs me but one penny!
