Amiga
	I have three Amigas, 2 2000's and 1 3000.

	My journey started with wanting to get them back to
	functioning.  The two 2000's are currently up and running
	just fine, hard drives backed up, real-time batteries
	replaced, and somewhat cleaned up.

	All the cards are fully working.

	The hard drives worked allowing me to completely back them
	up.  I'll get to how I did that later.

	The Amiga 3000 didn't make it.  It had what I think was too
	much battery damage to the motherboard.  It seems to work,
	but has no video output.

	This is one of my Amiga 2000's.  This one right here was my
	workhorse system up until about November 1997.  It has a
	GVP 68030 accelerator card.  A GVP Series II SCSI card.
	A Multiface Card 3 with two high speed serial ports and
	a high speed parallel port.  A Commodore A2060 Arcnet card.
	It uses a RG/62 coax cable and could go up to ~300kB/s.

	Amigas were NTSC output devices, a/k/a television scan
	rates of 15.5kHz.  RGB monitors _start_ at 31kHz.

        This Amiga has a A2320 scan doubler card that doubles the
        frequency allowing me to display its video over a standard
        RGB connector.

	I can show you all the insides later.

Wimodem232
	The Wimodem232 is available from CBM.  Their web site is
	cbmstuff.com.

        The Wimodem 232 turns your standard Wifi into what makes it
        look like an old RS232 modem to your computer using Hayes
	AT commands.  As far as your computer is concerned, it is
	an old Hayes compatible modem.

        Boards are $45, or $55 with OLED display.  I got the one
        with the display.  It is worth the $10 over just the LEDs.
        It shows state of the board and real time status of the
        connection at a glance.

	It runs on USB power via a mini-USB cable.

	The creator is available via email and responds very quickly.

	It connects to a DB25 serial port on most any computer no
	matter how old.  Haven't tried it on my TRS-80 Model I's yet!

	The board goes up to 230400 baud.

	For this demo I'll be using it at 38400 using the Amiga's
	native serial port.  The Amiga's native port can't reliably
	go beyond 38400.

        I have the Multiface Card 3 board in this computer that goes
        up to 115200 baud, but I've had problems interfacing it with
        the Wimodem232.  I don't know why or who's fault it is.  The
        Wimodem232 works just fine on the native port.  Anything
        else I've connected up to the high speed serial card has
        worked fine, but the two together just don't get along.

        Aside from all the old hardware in here, I have some new
        hardware--what is known as a SCSI2SD version 5 card.  The
        card sells for $55.  It allows my computer's SCSI card to
        talk with a regular micro SD card!  This is what I use now
        instead of an old fashion hard drive.

	It is pretty good.  I have one problem with it I haven't
	sorted out yet.  It doesn't work right immediately upon
	old power up.  But after a restart, it works just fine
	after that.  I'm sure there's just something I need to
	tweak in its configuration.  I'll show you the card later.

	One failed path (so far) is an IDE to Compact Flash card.
	The adaptor is only $5 from monoprice.com.  It, however,
	disagrees with the IDE controller on my Amiga's GVP '030
	card.  Since I got the SCSI2SD card working though, I
	haven't spent much time tinkering with it.

	I'm considering buying an oscilloscpe for debugging the
	Amiga's video problem.  The 'scope I'm considering is a
	Rigol DS1052E 50MHz Digital Oscope with 2 Channels.  It
	sells for $259 on Amazon with free shipping and can be
	firmware upgraded (hacked) to 100 MHz.

BBSes
	BBSes still exist!  They are available on the Internet!

	If you'd like to get a list, a web site to check is
	http://www.telnetbbsguide.com.  I'll take you to one
	of the sites this evening and bring back some old
	memories.

PPP
        Back in the day we used to have to run the internet over
        SLIP or PPP.  Most everyone moved from SLIP to PPP by the
        time cable modems made their appearance.
	
	I thought it would be fairly straight forward getting PPP
	going.  I was wrong!  It took a lot of pain and suffering
	to get it going, more than the rest of the restoration
	project -- and I'm still not there fully yet.  I'm close
	and have it hobbling, but it still has a lot of issues.

Now on to the Demo!

Terminus
	amigacity.xyz 23

Termite TCP
