Cookie Monsters

How web sites learn about you, your preferences, and why.

"On the Internet, nobody knows you're a dog."

That may be true, but it doesn't take long for them to figure
out that the user on the other end has a strange obsession with
frisbees.

A lot of people are concerned about privacy on the Internet.  I
want to give you an overview so you can understand how it works.

The first time you visit a web site, it knows very little about you.
Your Internet Service Provider assigned your computer unique number.
From that number a web site might have a good guess at where you
live, at least the country you live in, but other than that, it
knows nothing about you.

So how does a web site figure it all out?

Anytime you visit a web site, your browser can pick up "cookies".

A cookie is a bit of information that a browser squirrels away on
behalf of the site.  It can contain anything the site wants to save
in it.  Web sites use their cookies to learn about their users and
their interests.

Every click you make on a web site, that web site learns something.
The more it learns about you, the more "helpful" it can be.

Say you go to the Yahoo news site and often click on soccer scores.
Yahoo could store that in a cookie, and then when you come back
later, it might put up soccer scores and news on the front page for
you to make them easier to find.

Web sites each have their own cookies.  They don't share.  Yahoo
will have their own cookies where Google has its own.

But from the web site's viewpoint, there's a problem with these
cookies.  If you go to another computer, the web site has to start
all over.  If you share a computer with different people, the
information gets befuddled.  Say your daughter uses the computer and
plays a Spongebob trivia game on Yahoo.  Not knowing you're different
people, Yahoo might start thinking you're a Spongebob fan.

To stop this confusion, web sites want you to just have one type
of cookie, a cookie that uniquely identifies you.  That way they
can store all the profiling information on their servers and that
profile stays with you no matter where you go or what computer
you use.

Why would sites like Google and Yahoo offer "free" e-mail since it
obviously costs them money to provide?  The first thing people want
to do when they get to a computer is to check their e-mail.  Once
you've logged in to check it, they can now follow what you do on
their web site -- read movie reviews, read news stories, search for
new jobs -- and put it in your profile.

Sites have two objectives in collecting this information.  The
"nice" one is what I mentioned before, personalizing the site to
make it more interesting to you so you'll come back more often
and stay longer.  The other reason is to make money.

It's all about marketing those little ads we all see.  The happier
you are using a web site, the more time you'll want to spend on it.
The more time you're there, the more ads you'll see.

And by learning as much as it can about you, a web site can choose
ads you're more likely to look at and click on.  When you click on
it, the site gets a little bit of money.  A few clicks here and
there add up to millions of dollars in revenue.

Still, if you don't like web sites collecting this information,
don't log in, or just log in while reading e-mail then log out, and
set your browser to delete its cookies when you quit.  Web sites
also have privacy statements.  A privacy statement tells you what
information the web site collects and what they do with it.  Read it
so you can know what it is.

But if you think about it, all this is all pretty harmless data
because these free web sites don't know who you really are -- your
name and address -- nor do they care.  They just want profiling data
so they hopefully can put ads up you're more likely to click on so
they can make money and stay in business.

So if you're concerned about privacy, what should you worry about?

Take a look at the picture.  Who know who you really are -- your
real name and real address?  Who knows every single web site and
every single web page you've ever visited?

Your Internet Service Provider.

If you're really concerned about your privacy, don't worry about web
sites.  Instead, be aware of what laws control what data your ISP
collects on you and then what they can do with it such as sell it or
give copies to government agencies.
